---
layout: post
title: War
---
## Nuclear War
Dear Mr. President,

We were happy to learn of your plans to be the first sitting president of the United States to visit Hiroshima this week, after the G-7 economic summit in Japan. Many of us have been to Hiroshima and Nagasaki and found it a profound, life-changing experience, as did Secretary of State John Kerry on his recent visit.

In particular, meeting and hearing the personal stories of A-bomb survivors, Hibakusha, has made a unique impact on our work for global peace and disarmament. Learning of the suffering of the Hibakusha, but also their wisdom, their awe-inspiring sense of humanity, and steadfast advocacy of nuclear abolition so the horror they experienced can never happen again to other human beings, is a precious gift that cannot help but strengthen anyone’s resolve to dispose of the nuclear menace.

### War Calls
Yesterday, Army officer Capt. Nathan Michael Smith sued President Obama over the war against the Islamic State, challenging the President’s claim that he already has the legal authority to wage war against ISIS. The lawsuit comes on the tails of the death of the third American service member killed in the war, as well as Obama’s announcement that we’re sending an additional 250 special forces into Syria.

While the administration has asked Congress to enact a new authorization for the war against ISIS, it has plowed ahead with the war effort in the interim, arguing that because ISIS was originally Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Iraq, the 2001 and 2002 authorizations for the Global War on Terror and the Iraq War cover the campaign. Many legal experts beg to differ however, some of whom point out that ISIS didn’t exist when Congress passed the 2001 and 2002 authorizations, and that the Islamic State is at odds with Al Qaeda. Meanwhile, Congress has avoided debate on the war like the plague, abdicating one of its most important duties to debate and vote on whether or not the U.S. goes to war.
####