---
layout: post
title: Object Oriented Proggramming 2
---
## Object Oriented Proggramming
4 major principles that make a
language object-oriented: Encapsulation, Data Abstraction,
Polymorphism and Inheritence.

#### Polymorphism
Polymorphism means one name, many forms.  Polymorphism
manifests itself by having multiple methods all with the same name, but
slighty different functionality
is the provision of a single interface to entities of different types. A polymorphic type is one whose operations can also be applied to values of some other type, or types.There are several fundamentally different kinds of polymorphism
Polymorphism is basically the ability of an object to take on many forms. The most common use of polymorphism in OOP occurs when a parent class reference is used to refer to a child class object.

Any Java object that can pass more than one IS-A test is considered to be polymorphic. In Java, all Java objects are polymorphic since any object will pass the IS-A test for their own type and for the class Object.

It is important to know that the only possible way to access an object is through a reference variable. A reference variable can be of only one type. Once declared, the type of a reference variable cannot be changed.

The reference variable can be reassigned to other objects provided that it is not declared final. The type of the reference variable would determine the methods that it can invoke on the object.

A reference variable can refer to any object of its declared type or any subtype of its declared type. A reference variable can be declared as a class or interface type.


#### Abstraction
Data abstraction is the simplest of principles to understand. Data
abstraction and encapuslation are closely tied together, because a
simple definition of data abstraction is the development of classes,
objects, types in terms of their interfaces and functionality, instead
of their implementation details. Abstraction denotes a model, a view,
or some other focused representation for an actual item
is the process of taking away or removing characteristics from something in order to reduce it to a set of essential characteristics. In object-oriented programming, abstraction is one of three central principles (along with encapsulation and inheritance). Through the process of abstraction, a programmer hides all but the relevant data about an object in order to reduce complexity and increase efficiency. In the same way that abstraction sometimes works in art, the object that remains is a representation of the original, with unwanted detail omitted. The resulting object itself can be referred to as an abstraction, meaning a named entity made up of selected attributes and behavior specific to a particular usage of the originating entity. Abstraction is related to both encapsulation and data hiding.