---
layout: post
title: Peace
---
## Peace for Yemen
Yesterday, the United Nations released a report saying that more than half of Yemen’s population is now food insecure. Out of Yemen’s 22 governorates, 19 are facing “severe food insecurity,” and as long as the conflict continues, there’s little hope that access to food will improve. The Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC) also confirms that “about 51% of the population is suffering from food insecurity and malnutrition.” That is a 9.4 percent increase according to the IPC’s previous analysis in June 2015.

Yemen’s increase in food insecurity is unfortunately just one aspect of Yemen’s suffering. The restriction on commercial and humanitarian imports, mass displacement of people, high price of fuel, food, and other essential commodities, have all all contributed to Yemen’s humanitarian catastrophe. In a country that imports 90 percent of its staple foods, fuel shortages and import restrictions are particularly harsh. Furthermore, in a country where about 50 percent of the labor force comes from the agriculture sectors, shortages of seeds and fertilizers have devastated crop production and the economy. Making matters worse, Yemen experienced two cyclones in November 2015, and flash floods and locust swarms in April 2016. The World Food Program Deputy Regional Director Matthew Hollingworth reported in December 2015 that “half of the country is now just one step away from famine.”

### Bombs for Peace
Last week, we reported that the UN added a U.S.-backed Saudi-led military coalition to a list of children’s rights violators in its annual report on Children and Armed Conflict (CAAC) in response to a disturbing number of child casualties caused by the coalition in Yemen’s often forgotten war. Coming less than a week after the White House suspended the transfer of cluster munitions to Saudi Arabia, the new addition to the UN blacklist drew international attention and served as a grim reminder that the coalition’s use of cluster bombs – while one of its more atrocious tactics – is just the tip of the iceberg.

Predictably, Saudi officials responded ferociously. Brig. Gen. Ahmed Assiri, a spokesperson for the coalition, said “the report is imbalanced and does not rely on credible statistics.” He also said the report “misleads the public with incorrect numbers and mostly relies on information from sources associated with the Houthi militia and the deposed (former Yemeni president Ali Abdullah) Saleh.”
####