---
layout: post
title: Object Oriented Proggramming 1
---
[Google](https/:www.google.com)

## Object Oriented Proggramming

 4 major principles that make a
language object-oriented: Encapsulation, Data Abstraction,
Polymorphism and Inheritence.
#### Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the
hiding of data implementation by restricting access to accessors and
mutators.
Encapsulation is an Object Oriented Programming concept that binds together the data and functions that manipulate the data, and that keeps both safe from outside interference and misuse. Data encapsulation led to the important OOP concept of data hiding.

Data encapsulation is a mechanism of bundling the data, and the functions that use them and data abstraction is a mechanism of exposing only the interfaces and hiding the implementation details from the user.

C++ supports the properties of encapsulation and data hiding through the creation of user-defined types, called classes. We already have studied that a class can contain private, protected and public members. By default, all items defined in a class are private.


####Inheritance
 Objects can relate to eachother
with either a “has a”, “uses a” or an “is a” relationship.  “Is a”
is the inheritance way of object relationship. 
, inheritance is when an object or class is based on another object (prototypal inheritance) or class (class-based inheritance), using the same implementation (inheriting from an object or class) specifying implementation to maintain the same behavior (realizing an interface; inheriting behavior). It is a mechanism for code reuse and to allow independent extensions of the original software via public classes and interfaces. The relationships of objects or classes through inheritance give rise to a hierarchy.
In some languages inheritance and subtyping agree,[a] whereas in others they differ; in general subtyping establishes an is-a relationship, whereas inheritance only reuses implementation and establishes a syntactic relationship, not necessarily a semantic relationship (inheritance does not ensure behavioral subtyping). To distinguish these concepts, subtyping is also known as interface inheritance, whereas inheritance as defined here is known as implementation inheritance or code inheritan